Do you have professional knowledge
or experience that others can benefit from?
Do you enjoy helping others?
Are you looking for a new challenge?
Do you want to grow your influence,
expand your leadership skills,
or gain recognition from your peers?
If you answered yes to these questions,
then you might be a good candidate for becoming a mentor.
Being a mentor is a great way
to pass on the skills and lessons
that you've learned to a less experienced employee.
You get the satisfaction of helping a mentee
advance their career, and the benefit
of having someone to talk up your impact
and leadership skills.
But what does mentorship actually mean?
Here's a short introduction to who a mentor is,
what a mentor does, and how to become a better mentor.
First, as mentioned earlier,
a mentor is someone who gives advice and guidance
to a less experienced employee.
Mentors meet regularly with their mentees
for a predetermined period.
So, you might agree to meet periodically
over six months or a year,
or you might agree to keep meeting
until the mentee achieves a specific goal.
It's up to you and your mentee
to decide the frequency and duration of your meetings.
What's most important that you meet regularly.
Now, what do you actually do in your mentoring meetings?
It's up to the mentee to decide the objective
of each meeting, or how they could use your help.
That means your role is to listen,
facilitate, and respond with probing questions,
provide advice or feedback,
or even challenge your mentee with assignments.
Let's expand on this.
Mentors listen to their mentees aspirations,
challenges, and concerns with an empathetic ear.
They can also act as a sounding board for mentee's ideas.
They advise mentees based on their own knowledge
and experiences, and they may need to coach mentees
to clarify goals, hone their skills,
and develop action plans.
Mentors also challenge mentees
by giving constructive feedback,
asking probing questions, and assigning exercises.
They connect mentees with relevant people,
resources, or opportunities,
and they advocate for mentees when it makes sense,
but above all, a mentor acts as a role model
for their mentee.
They model the attitudes and behaviors
that have contributed to their own success.
When you consider everything that a mentor does,
some themes start to emerge
about what makes a great mentor,
or how you can become a better one.
Mentors should listen more than they talk.
Follow your mentee's lead,
and encourage them to communicate
where they could best use your help.
Also, ask probing questions
to facilitate a deeper understanding.
These are open ended questions
that challenge your mentee to think about an issue,
or topic in a new way or on a deeper level.
For example, you can ask a mentee,
"What do you want to happen?
What are you afraid will happen?"
Or, "Why do you think or say that?"
Finally, the best mentors make their sessions actionable.
Offer your advice on what your mentee can do
to work toward their goals,
whether that means assigning them a practice exercise,
giving them an article to read,
encouraging them to adopt a new habit,
or brainstorming ideas
and developing an action plan together.
Mentoring others can be a challenging
and rewarding experience,
but when both parties are committed
to the mentoring relationship
and invest in regular meetings,
you may be surprised by the impact
you can have on your mentee,
and even what your mentee can teach you.